

Go to Oracle Database > Autonomous Database > Create Autonomous Database


Lets create two Autonomous Data Warehouses (One for 19c and one for 23ai)

devcloud19c


devcloud23ai

Create the database as an always free resource with the default settings.

Set database name and display name to the same value:

Set the Admin Password

Allow access from anywhere.  The default of mtls connections cannot be changed, but you can change it after the database is created.

Keeping all the defaults will create a full set of features for the database.

Create the database now (later you can experiment with saving this database definition as a stack and then creating the stack)

While the first database is provisioning, go ahead and create the other database with the same settings but use 23ai for the version

The database name and display name can be the same:



After the databases are provisioned, set up tls:
	Edit the Network ACL and add your IP Address.  This will enable the option to require mtls.
	After the ACL is enabled, update mtls required to be optional.
	

Go to Connections
	download a wallet if you want to set up mtls.
	
	copy the connection strings for the database to a local file, you can use these in sql developer as the hostnames prefixed by jdbc:oracle:thin:@
	

The Tools Configuration Menu will show the URLs for Apex, ORDS, OML, Data Transforms, Mongo API, Soda Drivers.  Copy to a file or bookmark for easy access.
Go to Database Actions > User Management and save this url for managing users from the Admin account.

Create Users:

Create a dba user that you can use to make grants to users.  Even if you select a lot of admin grants in the UI, they will not be there if you reopen the edit user screen.
Reopen and grant pdb_dba as default role...this grant should stick and give you an account to manage grants to users.

Create a developer user that starts with db_developer_role (23ai) and some of the other developer roles

Dont forget to grant a quota on the Data tablespace.







	

